

scope - refers to the visibility of the dependency

1. compile - available in all the lifecycles + also part of the jar that is built

2. Test - only for testing (not for compiling the main folder's code)

3. runtime - not needed for compilation but needed during runtime

4. provided - available during the compilation, but not packaged in the jar


Types of application servers:
1. Tomcat - default choice present in spring boot starter web dependency (Apache)
2. Jetty - (Eclipse)
3. Undertow - (Red Hat)


Ques, If I have all three embedder servers, which one will run
A: Tomcat
B: Jetty
C: Undertow
D: Error


spring-boot-starter-web --> present since spring boot 2.X - present now also

spring-boot-starter-webmvc --> launched in spring boot 4.X only

API - Application Programming Interface


Attributes associated with APIs
1. Domain - this represents the company's unique domain which is used to host any services on cloud or otherwise also
2. Path / Endpoint - This represents the unique action that a user would want to take   (Ex: shopping.amazon.in/add-item, shopping.amazon.in/delete-item)
Request URL - Domain + Path

3. HTTP Method / Request Method - Identifier given by the backend to the frontend to distinguish which type of action they are going to take
POST - STORE / UPLOAD / ADD some data on the server
GET - RETRIEVE / FETCH some data from the server
PATCH / PUT - UPDATE some existing data on the server
DELETE - DELETE some existing data on the server

4. Request Headers - Extra data / metadata which the client sends to the server. This data is not the
input data that server is expecting from client, but kind of metadata which helps in doing some important things

5. Response Headers - Extra data / metadata which the server sends to the client. This data is not the
                      output data that client is expecting from server, but kind of metadata which helps client in doing
                      some important things
6. Payload / Body - Client sends the input data in form of body to the server basis which server takes certain action
